people are living in the ruins in Gaza
the Israelis insist that they hit Hamas
targets who use civilians as human
Shields America said it had sent Israel
another reminder that Hamas are
legitimate military targets and
civilians are
not in Gaza the UN fears civil order is
breaking down its food warehouses in the
South were looted
the desperation comes from Israel's
Siege which the UN says violates the
laws of war because it's a collective
punishment of
civilians thousands of people ransack
the
warehouses Israel says there's no food
shortage in
Gaza he's saying we have no flour no
water not even toilets our houses were
destroyed no one cares about us we
appeal to the people of the world the
big powers are against us we need Aid we
wouldn't have done this if we weren't in
need we need fresh water we need food we
are starving this is totally unfair our
children can't
sleep further north in Gaza City after
patients and staff refused Israel's
order to evacuate Al's Hospital the
wards filled with smoke as building
nearby were
hit only a few miles away in stot the
closest Israeli town to Gaza a sense of
grim determination has replaced the
Panic of the first few days after the
Hamas attacks a Al Haj strat's head of
security said his nephew and some of his
team were killed by
Hamas a visiting General nimod alone was
greeted like a man back from the dead
on the 7th of October Hamas made the
false claim that they captured alone and
taken him into
Gaza ASP said they were all still trying
to process the horror of what
happened the security Chief took me on a
tour of sto's defenses Hamas he said had
hit them hard the equation had to change
and if Palestinian civilians suffered it
was not Israel's fault
we allowed them to come work in Israel
and we thought this would help the
Ordinary People of Gaza we thought a
good economy would bring some peace but
now we know that only security brings
peace but after 20 rounds of war with
Kamas and Islamic Jihad this needs to be
a story that ends
here our eyes were closed he said and we
lost everything Israel's dead are still
being identified
hash says he can't face any more
funerals night and day Israel's groundw
to destroy herass gather Pace it is
reverberating around the region the
risks of a wider Middle East War remain
Jeremy boen BBC News in southern
Israel we're live now to speak to tamaso
DEA longa from the Red Cross joining us
from Geneva thank you and welcome to the
program um first off I wonder if you
could just confirm whether you've been
able to we have had that Communications
uh blackout for a time over the weekend
have you reestablished Communications
with your team on the
ground yeah good morning thanks for
having me today yes we established
communication uh yesterday early in the
morning around 4:00 a.m. hour time uh
but still is not a stable communication
and is still a challenge to talk with
teams uh uh in in the Gaza STP the most
worrying part of the communication
blackout was that people were not able
to reach the Emergency Medical Service
to call the ambulance so what we heard
from pales colleagues is that they
mainly they were mainly foll the noise
of bombardment to arrive in the area and
and try to find injured people which of
course is pretty risky and once they had
located those injured who needed your
help um what resources do you have to
hand they
adequate not at all I mean the resources
are absolutely limited and running out I
would say minute after minute I mean we
saw it in our Hospital the alud hospital
in Gaza City but also in the other
health facilities the the stories are um
telling us that shelves are empty
medical equipments are not anymore there
and then we don't have to forget the
stress on the medical personnel they are
working 24/7 in the the last more than
two weeks uh without any shift and also
being affected
themselves what can you tell us about
aluts
hospital aluts hospital is uh fully
crowded of patients injured and more
than 10,000 people who sought a refuge
in the hospital because they thought
that was the safest place where to stay
in Gaza City the situation of course is
out of control in the sense that it's a
it's a heal structure where people are
living in the corridors in the stairs
outside and inside plus 500 patients
that are receiving a life saving care
talking about intensive care units
babies in incubators people who need
oxygen and now the the the the issue are
mainly two one is the evacuation order
that arrived yesterday which we are
deeply concerned about because with this
situation there is no possibility to
evacuate patient
and then second lack of medical
equipment but also lack of fuel
electricity will run out soon and in
palest and colleagues already cut air
conditioning the lift and other part of
the of the of the building doesn't get
any more electricity to save a fuel but
of course this is a situation that
sooner or later will arrive at the end
and of course this is so what does the
Red Cross make of um Israel um saying
that there will need to be an evacuation
of Al cuds what's your position the
organization's position on that
warning well I mean we were clear
yesterday this is not possible this is
not possible hospitals must be protected
in any condition and no nurse no doctor
no patient should risk to die in a in a
bed of a hospital and then also this is
The Impossible dilemma that no doctor or
nurses should face leave the hospital to
seek safety but leaving their patients
behind or stay in the hospital are
risking their lives palesa and teams
said it clearly they will stay with
their patients uh tomasa obviously
you're in Geneva but I'm assuming you
speak to your volunteers and your staff
have they ever reported any intimidation
from um members of Hamas in
organizations or in buildings such as
hospitals have they encountered that to
my knowledge I never heard about these
stories so what is going to be your
position next in terms of um those
bombardments have come closer and closer
to um your hospital well aloud's
hospital and asifa Hospital what's going
to happen next what have you got in
place well I mean what we are doing of
course is calling on all the parties and
having a bilateral conversation with
different stakeholders to avoid that
hospitals will become a Target so to
protect as much as possible the hospital
and we are strengthening all our efforts
to get humanitarian Aid in from the
southern border
then of course we do hope that these two
I mean the combination between the two
so let's say diplomacy in closed door
condition and bringing humanitarian
inside the Gaza STP will help our
colleagues in the hospital and around
the Gaza strep now we understand that
there were some 33 36 possibly trucks
that were allowed into uh the Gaza Strip
there is the hope that there will be
more coming in 12 trucks I understand
were carrying medical supplies medican
on Frontier has said that they've sent
26 tons of medical supplies to Egypt
hoping to get those into Gaza how
closely do you coordinate with uh those
trucks coming
in well I mean the coordination is made
logistically Wise by the Egyptian
reccent on the Egyptian side and
Palestine reccent together with the UN
on the Palestine side the problem here
is that these tracks and this
humanitarian needs to enter 24/7 in the
Rafa border through the ra a border we
need to have a continuous flow of
humanitarian Aid 10 trucks a day 30
trucks another day are just drops in the
ocean and this is why we are really
calling on all the parties to make this
sustainable in the mid and long term but
also to create a safe humanitarian space
inside the Gaza Strip to do our work we
need safety and civilians need safety to
get the humanitarian Aid that they much
needed okay toas Del Longo of the Red
Cross speaking to us today from Geneva
thank you very much indeed thank you